DESMOS_README.md, before:

# Desmos fork of New Relic log ingestion S3 lambda function

The New Relic log ingestion S3 function doesn't handle timestamps very well, and upstream PRs to address
this have not been reviewed, so it's necessary to run our own fork of this code.

## Testing locally

See DEVELOPER.md for more detailed instructions, which involve passing data through via an S3 url and a fake message.

```shell
make build
LOG_TYPE=alb LICENSE_KEY=foobar TEST_FILE="./test/mock.json" make run
```

A faster way to test locally is to modify the `handler.py` script to directly run part of the code in the main function and then
use a step debugger. E.g.:

```python
if __name__ == "__main__":
    print(_package_log_payload({ "entry": [
    'https 2024-02-14T23:56:09.786226Z app/knox-production-blue-alb/server-hash 1.1.1.1:28756 1.1.1.1:80 0.000 0.026 0.000 200 200 332 26165 "GET https://www.desmos.com:443/calc_thumbs/production/fuq5f9ufmt.png HTTP/1.1" "Amazon CloudFront" ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256 TLSv1.2 arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:us-east-1:id:targetgroup/knox-production-blue-tg/7826de5ad4fae1b0 "Root=1-65cd5319-6f53b81a505790b803e29fcf" "www.desmos.com" "session-reused" 0 2024-02-14T23:56:09.759000Z "forward" "-" "-" "1.1.1.1:80" "200" "-" "-"""',
'https 2024-02-14T23:56:09.867964Z app/knox-production-blue-alb/server-hash 1.1.1.1:28128 - 0.000 0.022 0.000 200 200 1746 188 "POST https://www.desmos.com:443/data-events HTTP/1.1" "Mozilla/5.0 (X11; CrOS x86_64 14541.0.0) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/1.1.1.1 Safari/537.36" ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256 TLSv1.2 arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:us-east-1:id:targetgroup/knox-p-AlbLi-CVM7KDU26SWA/6fbe1b2e1516cd26 "Root=1-65cd5319-1a38f07746a9f0f4338078c8" "www.desmos.com" "arn:aws:acm:us-east-1:id:certificate/34af6c4e-ca02-4055-acc5-3c64e1655232" 5 2024-02-14T23:56:09.845000Z "forward" "-" "-" "-" "200" "-" "-"',
'https 2024-02-14T23:56:09.957753Z app/knox-production-blue-alb/server-hash 1.1.1.1:10556 1.1.1.1:80 0.000 0.001 0.000 200 200 1248 16760 "GET https://www.desmos.com:443/assets/img/partner-logos/CA-RGB.png HTTP/1.1" "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/17.0 Safari/605.1.15" ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256 TLSv1.2 arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:us-east-1:id:targetgroup/knox-production-blue-tg/7826de5ad4fae1b0 "Root=1-65cd5319-7fd7dad26c22a9bf4fe646e4" "www.desmos.com" "session-reused" 0 2024-02-14T23:56:09.956000Z "forward" "-" "-" "1.1.1.1:80" "200" "-" "-""',
'https 2024-02-14T23:56:10.053869Z app/knox-production-blue-alb/server-hash 1.1.1.1:15776 - 0.000 0.028 0.000 200 200 2049 207 "POST https://www.desmos.com:443/usage-stats HTTP/1.1" "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/1.1.1.1 Safari/537.36" ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256 TLSv1.2 arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:us-east-1:id:targetgroup/knox-p-AlbLi-6CYRTEME1L9D/6c484ca0798de0da "Root=1-65cd531a-3176c6855e6dd3d541fde966" "www.desmos.com" "session-reused" 4 2024-02-14T23:56:10.025000Z "forward" "-" "-" "-" "200" "-" "-"',
        'https 2024-02-14T23:56:10.140257Z app/knox-production-blue-alb/server-hash 1.1.1.1:26404 - 0.000 0.029 0.000 200 200 1797 188 "POST https://www.desmos.com:443/data-events HTTP/1.1" "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/1.1.1.1 Safari/537.36 Edg/1.1.1.1" ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256 TLSv1.2 arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:us-east-1:id:targetgroup/knox-p-AlbLi-CVM7KDU26SWA/6fbe1b2e1516cd26 "Root=1-65cd531a-1e77ea645782e318179dff6c" "www.desmos.com" "session-reused" 5 2024-02-14T23:56:10.111000Z "forward" "-" "-" "-" "200" "-" "-""']
                                 }))
    # lambda_handler('', '')
```

If you're going to do that, you'll also need to manually return a `log_type` or set that environment variable.

## Packaging for deployment

```shell
make build
BUCKET=newrelic-cloudfront-ingestion-lambda-package REGION=us-east-1 make package
```

This will generate a new zip file to our S3 bucket. You should see `uploading to <hash>` in the output (you'll also
see some lines which say "File with same data already exists", which are expected). Then you'll need the S3 url for the 
code package generated, which will look like `s3://newrelic-cloudfront-ingestion-lambda-package/<hash>`. You can paste
that into the upload code from S3 dialog on the lambda function which you'd like to update.

## Lambda function setup

The easiest way to proceed with lambda function setup is to copy the setup from another working deployment on our AWS account, e.g. https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home?region=us-east-1#/functions/NewRelic-s3-log-ingestion-knox-alb?tab=code

Key configuration options to set are:

| Option                          | Setting                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|---------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Runtime                         | Python                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Handler                         | `handler.lambda_handler` (this is different from the default)                                                                                                                                      |
| `ADDITIONAL_ATTRIBUTES` env var | `{"service_name":"knox-production"}`  (or `knox-staging`, or `matomo`)                                                                                                                             |
| `LICENSE_KEY` env var           | NewRelic license key                                                                                                                                                                               |    
| `LOG_TYPE` env var              | String defining log type (e.g. `cloudfront`, `alb`, `nginx`). Some of these types are auto-parsed by NewRelic, but can also be an arbitrary string.                                                |
| Timeout                         | Set to 15 minutes (higher than default)                                                                                                                                                            |
| Execution Role                  | `arn:aws:iam::604097293469:role/serverlessrepo-NewRelic-l-NewRelicLogIngestionFunct-izPFLMbHJpsq`                                                                                                  |
| Triggers                        | Add an S3 trigger for `s3:ObjectCreated:*`, tied to the bucket containing logs which you want to ingest. If this bucket contains logs for different services, you'll need to set a prefix as well. |

To temporarily disable a lambda function (if we don't need logs ingested), delete the trigger and then recreate it later.

To backfill logs for a time period where the lambda function wasn't running, you'll need to generate an inventory in S3 and run the lambda function via a batch process.

Commit message:

Update desmos readme and add tests events

DESMOS_README.md, after:

# Desmos fork of New Relic log ingestion S3 lambda function

The New Relic log ingestion S3 function doesn't handle timestamps very well, and upstream PRs to address
this have not been reviewed, so it's necessary to run our own fork of this code.

## Testing locally

See DEVELOPER.md for more detailed instructions, which involve passing data through via an S3 url and a fake message.

```shell
make build
LOG_TYPE=alb LICENSE_KEY=foobar TEST_FILE="./test/mock-alb.json" make run
```

Alternately use `mock-cloudfront.json`. These are mock events which point to real S3 files we need to upload and create in our bucket. Note that the newrelic send will fail unless you also
set newrelic key via an env var, but generally speaking getting that far is good enough.

A faster way to test locally is to modify the `handler.py` script to directly run part of the code in the main function and then
use a step debugger. E.g.:

```python
if __name__ == "__main__":
    print(_package_log_payload({ "entry": [
    'https 2024-02-14T23:56:09.786226Z app/knox-production-blue-alb/server-hash 1.1.1.1:28756 1.1.1.1:80 0.000 0.026 0.000 200 200 332 26165 "GET https://www.desmos.com:443/calc_thumbs/production/fuq5f9ufmt.png HTTP/1.1" "Amazon CloudFront" ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256 TLSv1.2 arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:us-east-1:id:targetgroup/knox-production-blue-tg/7826de5ad4fae1b0 "Root=1-65cd5319-6f53b81a505790b803e29fcf" "www.desmos.com" "session-reused" 0 2024-02-14T23:56:09.759000Z "forward" "-" "-" "1.1.1.1:80" "200" "-" "-"""',
'https 2024-02-14T23:56:09.867964Z app/knox-production-blue-alb/server-hash 1.1.1.1:28128 - 0.000 0.022 0.000 200 200 1746 188 "POST https://www.desmos.com:443/data-events HTTP/1.1" "Mozilla/5.0 (X11; CrOS x86_64 14541.0.0) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/1.1.1.1 Safari/537.36" ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256 TLSv1.2 arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:us-east-1:id:targetgroup/knox-p-AlbLi-CVM7KDU26SWA/6fbe1b2e1516cd26 "Root=1-65cd5319-1a38f07746a9f0f4338078c8" "www.desmos.com" "arn:aws:acm:us-east-1:id:certificate/34af6c4e-ca02-4055-acc5-3c64e1655232" 5 2024-02-14T23:56:09.845000Z "forward" "-" "-" "-" "200" "-" "-"',
'https 2024-02-14T23:56:09.957753Z app/knox-production-blue-alb/server-hash 1.1.1.1:10556 1.1.1.1:80 0.000 0.001 0.000 200 200 1248 16760 "GET https://www.desmos.com:443/assets/img/partner-logos/CA-RGB.png HTTP/1.1" "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/17.0 Safari/605.1.15" ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256 TLSv1.2 arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:us-east-1:id:targetgroup/knox-production-blue-tg/7826de5ad4fae1b0 "Root=1-65cd5319-7fd7dad26c22a9bf4fe646e4" "www.desmos.com" "session-reused" 0 2024-02-14T23:56:09.956000Z "forward" "-" "-" "1.1.1.1:80" "200" "-" "-""',
'https 2024-02-14T23:56:10.053869Z app/knox-production-blue-alb/server-hash 1.1.1.1:15776 - 0.000 0.028 0.000 200 200 2049 207 "POST https://www.desmos.com:443/usage-stats HTTP/1.1" "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/1.1.1.1 Safari/537.36" ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256 TLSv1.2 arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:us-east-1:id:targetgroup/knox-p-AlbLi-6CYRTEME1L9D/6c484ca0798de0da "Root=1-65cd531a-3176c6855e6dd3d541fde966" "www.desmos.com" "session-reused" 4 2024-02-14T23:56:10.025000Z "forward" "-" "-" "-" "200" "-" "-"',
        'https 2024-02-14T23:56:10.140257Z app/knox-production-blue-alb/server-hash 1.1.1.1:26404 - 0.000 0.029 0.000 200 200 1797 188 "POST https://www.desmos.com:443/data-events HTTP/1.1" "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/1.1.1.1 Safari/537.36 Edg/1.1.1.1" ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256 TLSv1.2 arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:us-east-1:id:targetgroup/knox-p-AlbLi-CVM7KDU26SWA/6fbe1b2e1516cd26 "Root=1-65cd531a-1e77ea645782e318179dff6c" "www.desmos.com" "session-reused" 5 2024-02-14T23:56:10.111000Z "forward" "-" "-" "-" "200" "-" "-""']
                                 }))
    # lambda_handler('', '')
```

If you're going to do that, you'll also need to manually return a `log_type` or set that environment variable.

## Packaging for deployment

```shell
make build
BUCKET=newrelic-cloudfront-ingestion-lambda-package REGION=us-east-1 make package
```

This will generate a new zip file to our S3 bucket. You should see `uploading to <hash>` in the output (you'll also
see some lines which say "File with same data already exists", which are expected). Then you'll need the S3 url for the 
code package generated, which will look like `s3://newrelic-cloudfront-ingestion-lambda-package/<hash>`. You can paste
that into the upload code from S3 dialog on the lambda function which you'd like to update.

## Lambda function setup

The easiest way to proceed with lambda function setup is to copy the setup from another working deployment on our AWS account, e.g. https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home?region=us-east-1#/functions/NewRelic-s3-log-ingestion-knox-alb?tab=code

Key configuration options to set are:

| Option                          | Setting                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|---------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Runtime                         | Python                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Handler                         | `handler.lambda_handler` (this is different from the default)                                                                                                                                      |
| `ADDITIONAL_ATTRIBUTES` env var | `{"service_name":"knox-production"}`  (or `knox-staging`, or `matomo`)                                                                                                                             |
| `LICENSE_KEY` env var           | NewRelic license key                                                                                                                                                                               |    
| `LOG_TYPE` env var              | String defining log type (e.g. `cloudfront`, `alb`, `nginx`). Some of these types are auto-parsed by NewRelic, but can also be an arbitrary string.                                                |
| Timeout                         | Set to 15 minutes (higher than default)                                                                                                                                                            |
| Execution Role                  | `arn:aws:iam::604097293469:role/serverlessrepo-NewRelic-l-NewRelicLogIngestionFunct-izPFLMbHJpsq`                                                                                                  |
| Triggers                        | Add an S3 trigger for `s3:ObjectCreated:*`, tied to the bucket containing logs which you want to ingest. If this bucket contains logs for different services, you'll need to set a prefix as well. |

To temporarily disable a lambda function (if we don't need logs ingested), delete the trigger and then recreate it later.

To backfill logs for a time period where the lambda function wasn't running, you'll need to generate an inventory in S3 and run the lambda function via a batch process.
